
### MobX in Focus exercises

https://docs.canva.tech/frontend/fundamentals/how-we-handle-state/intro-to-mobx/

https://mobx.js.org/reactions.html

**How to run code snippets in Node environment from local**

```node --> .editor --> copy and paste the code --> Ctrl+D```

**Demo 1**: **observable.box**

Creates box whose contents can be observed

Key terms: 

```mobx.observable.box()```
```box1.observe(x => x.oldValue and x.newValue)``` =>> x is the box object

Observe method returns a dispose function which when called will dispose/remove that observe and free up memory

observe gets called only when new value is set

Observable works different for objects => by default they wrap the object around mobx proxy to prevent that use

```const box2 = mobx.observable.box({ a: 7 }, { deep: false });```


**Demo 2**: **Reaction**

```reaction(() => data, (data, reaction) => { sideEffect })```

Key terms: Query function and effect

The **reaction** keeps track of the return value of the ‘data’ function and runs the ‘effect’ function whenever it changes.

JSON: text data format independent of the platform

As JSON is textual, its integers and floats can be slow to encode and decode. JSON is not designed for numbers. Also, Comparing strings in JSON can be slow

Protobuf uses binary message format that allows programmers to specify a schema for the data. It also includes a set of rules and tools to define and exchange these messages.
A schema for a particular use of protocol buffers associates data types with field names, using integers to identify each field.

easier to bind to objects and faster

```
message Point {
 required int32 x = 1;
 required int32 y = 2;
 optional string label = 3;
}
```

ProtoBuf works well in 

    * Server RPC
    * Having a predefined and large set of data types
    * Formats are self-describing

How do we use ProtoBuf?

Message descriptors, Msg implementations, Parsing and serialization.

## Freecodecamp

90% of React exercises are completed.

https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/front-end-libraries/#sass

